## OnChain SAAS 

Traditional saas applications have a problem where the creator of the app doesn't have a network effect on its usage. Say I'm the creator of a novel feature calendar app with a creative unique feature.

Let's say this feature makes it super popular among its users. In comes Microsoft or another big tech and they simple copy the feature and insert it into their existing calendar app. (Microsoft is basically a SAAS cloning factory).

Because of their superior distirbution, Microsoft is likely to gain the upper hand and starve out the smaller company, increasing its monopoly power. This is bad for individuals and suppressive to new startups. The incremental startup founder would likely just join Microsoft instead of trying to compete on their creative Calendar App.

While at Microsoft they would likely be less innovative, since they have less incentive to. Therefore the distribution monopolies of major tech companies starves the world of creative ideas (in some cases, in other cases like building mega data centers for AI, Microsofti is doing a great job).

Crypto apps can charge by token, and because the token is handed to community, that community has financial incentive in the upside of the application and so resists moving to the monopoly SAAS aggregator. 

Crypto networks/tokens have anti monoplistic tendencies, a new network is easy to bootstrap, and users would prefer a new token rather than an existing app adding an unrelated SAAS feature. (We don't see many DeFi super-apps, Lido isn't trying to build Uniswap and vice versa, they stay in their lanes).

A future where generic SAAS apps can be launched on-chain is good, because (1) they receive global distribution (no blockers due to pesky app store rules) (2) they receive powerful 0 to 1 network effects in the form of the token

(3) They have build in moats against the 'monopoly app aggregator'

For this reason, I believe if we are able to bring crypto to a point where one can launch generic SAAS apps onchain, it will be a powerful tool for founders. Crypto's power is in its incetives, and it does an excellent job of handing this power to smaller time founders and away from megamonopolies. 



